docs/UnityHelperScriptsGuide.md, before:

# Unity Helper Scripts

## With a Little Help From Our Friends

Sometimes what it takes to be a really efficient C programmer is a little non-C.
The Unity project includes a couple Ruby scripts for making your life just a tad
easier. They are completely optional. If you choose to use them, you'll need a
copy of Ruby, of course. Just install whatever the latest version is, and it is
likely to work. You can find Ruby at [ruby-lang.org](https://ruby-labg.org/).


### `generate_test_runner.rb`

Are you tired of creating your own `main` function in your test file? Do you
keep forgetting to add a `RUN_TEST` call when you add a new test case to your
suite? Do you want to use CMock or other fancy add-ons but don't want to figure
out how to create your own `RUN_TEST` macro?

Well then we have the perfect script for you!

The `generate_test_runner` script processes a given test file and automatically
creates a separate test runner file that includes ?main?to execute the test
cases within the scanned test file. All you do then is add the generated runner
to your list of files to be compiled and linked, and presto you're done!

This script searches your test file for void function signatures having a
function name beginning with "test" or "spec". It treats each of these
functions as a test case and builds up a test suite of them. For example, the
following includes three test cases:

```C
void testVerifyThatUnityIsAwesomeAndWillMakeYourLifeEasier(void)
{
  ASSERT_TRUE(1);
}
void test_FunctionName_should_WorkProperlyAndReturn8(void) {
  ASSERT_EQUAL_INT(8, FunctionName());
}
void spec_Function_should_DoWhatItIsSupposedToDo(void) {
  ASSERT_NOT_NULL(Function(5));
}
```

You can run this script a couple of ways. The first is from the command line:

```Shell
ruby generate_test_runner.rb TestFile.c NameOfRunner.c
```

Alternatively, if you include only the test file parameter, the script will copy
the name of the test file and automatically append "_Runner" to the name of the
generated file. The example immediately below will create TestFile_Runner.c.

```Shell
ruby generate_test_runner.rb TestFile.c
```

You can also add a [YAML](http://www.yaml.org/) file to configure extra options.
Conveniently, this YAML file is of the same format as that used by Unity and
CMock. So if you are using YAML files already, you can simply pass the very same
file into the generator script.

```Shell
ruby generate_test_runner.rb TestFile.c my_config.yml
```

The contents of the YAML file `my_config.yml` could look something like the
example below. If you're wondering what some of these options do, you're going
to love the next section of this document.

```YAML
:unity:
  :includes:
    - stdio.h
    - microdefs.h
  :cexception: 1
  :suit_setup: "blah = malloc(1024);"
  :suite_teardown: "free(blah);"
```

If you would like to force your generated test runner to include one or more
header files, you can just include those at the command line too. Just make sure
these are _after_ the YAML file, if you are using one:

```Shell
ruby generate_test_runner.rb TestFile.c my_config.yml extras.h
```

Another option, particularly if you are already using Ruby to orchestrate your
builds - or more likely the Ruby-based build tool Rake - is requiring this
script directly. Anything that you would have specified in a YAML file can be
passed to the script as part of a hash. Let's push the exact same requirement
set as we did above but this time through Ruby code directly:

```Ruby
require "generate_test_runner.rb"
options = {
  :includes => ["stdio.h", "microdefs.h"],
  :cexception => 1,
  :suite_setup => "blah = malloc(1024);",
  :suite_teardown => "free(blah);"
}
UnityTestRunnerGenerator.new.run(testfile, runner_name, options)
```

If you have multiple files to generate in a build script (such as a Rakefile),
you might want to instantiate a generator object with your options and call it
to generate each runner thereafter. Like thus:

```Ruby
gen = UnityTestRunnerGenerator.new(options)
test_files.each do |f|
  gen.run(f, File.basename(f,'.c')+"Runner.c"
end
```

#### Options accepted by generate_test_runner.rb:

The following options are available when executing `generate_test_runner`. You
may pass these as a Ruby hash directly or specify them in a YAML file, both of
which are described above. In the `examples` directory, Example 3's Rakefile
demonstrates using a Ruby hash.


##### `:includes`

This option specifies an array of file names to be ?#include?'d at the top of
your runner C file. You might use it to reference custom types or anything else
universally needed in your generated runners.


##### `:suite_setup`

Define this option with C code to be executed _before any_ test cases are run.


##### `:suite_teardown`

Define this option with C code to be executed ?after all?test cases have
finished.


##### `:enforce_strict_ordering`

This option should be defined if you have the strict order feature enabled in
CMock (see CMock documentation). This generates extra variables required for
everything to run smoothly. If you provide the same YAML to the generator as
used in CMock's configuration, you've already configured the generator properly.


##### `:plugins`

This option specifies an array of plugins to be used (of course, the array can
contain only a single plugin). This is your opportunity to enable support for
CException support, which will add a check for unhandled exceptions in each
test, reporting a failure if one is detected. To enable this feature using Ruby:

```Ruby
:plugins => [ :cexception ]
```

Or as a yaml file:

```YAML
:plugins:
  -:cexception
```

If you are using CMock, it is very likely that you are already passing an array
of plugins to CMock. You can just use the same array here. This script will just
ignore the plugins that don't require additional support.


### `unity_test_summary.rb`

A Unity test file contains one or more test case functions. Each test case can
pass, fail, or be ignored. Each test file is run individually producing results
for its collection of test cases. A given project will almost certainly be
composed of multiple test files. Therefore, the suite of tests is comprised of
one or more test cases spread across one or more test files. This script
aggregates individual test file results to generate a summary of all executed
test cases. The output includes how many tests were run, how many were ignored,
and how many failed. In addition, the output includes a listing of which
specific tests were ignored and failed. A good example of the breadth and
details of these results can be found in the `examples` directory. Intentionally
ignored and failing tests in this project generate corresponding entries in the
summary report.

If you're interested in other (prettier?) output formats, check into the
Ceedling build tool project (ceedling.sourceforge.net) that works with Unity and
CMock and supports xunit-style xml as well as other goodies.

This script assumes the existence of files ending with the extensions
`.testpass` and `.testfail`.The contents of these files includes the test
results summary corresponding to each test file executed with the extension set
according to the presence or absence of failures for that test file. The script
searches a specified path for these files, opens each one it finds, parses the
results, and aggregates and prints a summary. Calling it from the command line
looks like this:

```Shell
ruby unity_test_summary.rb build/test/
```

You can optionally specify a root path as well. This is really helpful when you
are using relative paths in your tools' setup, but you want to pull the summary
into an IDE like Eclipse for clickable shortcuts.

```Shell
ruby unity_test_summary.rb build/test/ ~/projects/myproject/
```

Or, if you're more of a Windows sort of person:

```Shell
ruby unity_test_summary.rb build\teat\ C:\projects\myproject\
```

When configured correctly, you'll see a final summary, like so:

```Shell
--------------------------
UNITY IGNORED TEST SUMMARY
--------------------------
blah.c:22:test_sandwiches_should_HaveBreadOnTwoSides:IGNORE

-------------------------
UNITY FAILED TEST SUMMARY
-------------------------
blah.c:87:test_sandwiches_should_HaveCondiments:FAIL:Expected 1 was 0
meh.c:38:test_soda_should_BeCalledPop:FAIL:Expected "pop" was "coke"

--------------------------
OVERALL UNITY TEST SUMMARY
--------------------------
45 TOTAL TESTS 2 TOTAL FAILURES 1 IGNORED
```

How convenient is that?


*Find The Latest of This And More at [ThrowTheSwitch.org](https://throwtheswitch.org)*

Commit message:

Squashed 'tests/unity/' changes from 60b13f0..287e076
287e076 Post release
774da10 Merge pull request #296 from jlindgren90/master
629b86d Merge unity_setup.h into unity.h.
0914d80 Merge pull request #308 from codehearts/patch-1
5ee55fe Fix missing TEST_ASSERT_EACH_EQUAL_HEX_MESSAGE
38c387b Merge pull request #304 from VLambret/master
17d4ea9 Color test results using ANSI escape codes
031b1ba Merge pull request #300 from jsalling/bugfix/greater-than
df78aad Make weak symbol usage more portable:
a7e8797 Fix link errors with MinGW.
94a3008 Update continuous integration to build 32-bit Unity
b119919 Add 64-bit comparison asserts
91bcbe1 Add 'greater/less or equal to' asserts on integers
8caade7 Fix bug in greater/less than asserts on unsigned int
1381a1a Update documentation.
2593c31 Allow suiteSetUp() and suiteTearDown() to be provided as normal C functions.
60def10 Update configuration docs

git-subtree-dir: tests/unity
git-subtree-split: 287e076962ec711cd2bdf08364a8df9ce51e106b

docs/UnityHelperScriptsGuide.md, after:

# Unity Helper Scripts

## With a Little Help From Our Friends

Sometimes what it takes to be a really efficient C programmer is a little non-C.
The Unity project includes a couple Ruby scripts for making your life just a tad
easier. They are completely optional. If you choose to use them, you'll need a
copy of Ruby, of course. Just install whatever the latest version is, and it is
likely to work. You can find Ruby at [ruby-lang.org](https://ruby-labg.org/).


### `generate_test_runner.rb`

Are you tired of creating your own `main` function in your test file? Do you
keep forgetting to add a `RUN_TEST` call when you add a new test case to your
suite? Do you want to use CMock or other fancy add-ons but don't want to figure
out how to create your own `RUN_TEST` macro?

Well then we have the perfect script for you!

The `generate_test_runner` script processes a given test file and automatically
creates a separate test runner file that includes ?main?to execute the test
cases within the scanned test file. All you do then is add the generated runner
to your list of files to be compiled and linked, and presto you're done!

This script searches your test file for void function signatures having a
function name beginning with "test" or "spec". It treats each of these
functions as a test case and builds up a test suite of them. For example, the
following includes three test cases:

```C
void testVerifyThatUnityIsAwesomeAndWillMakeYourLifeEasier(void)
{
  ASSERT_TRUE(1);
}
void test_FunctionName_should_WorkProperlyAndReturn8(void) {
  ASSERT_EQUAL_INT(8, FunctionName());
}
void spec_Function_should_DoWhatItIsSupposedToDo(void) {
  ASSERT_NOT_NULL(Function(5));
}
```

You can run this script a couple of ways. The first is from the command line:

```Shell
ruby generate_test_runner.rb TestFile.c NameOfRunner.c
```

Alternatively, if you include only the test file parameter, the script will copy
the name of the test file and automatically append "_Runner" to the name of the
generated file. The example immediately below will create TestFile_Runner.c.

```Shell
ruby generate_test_runner.rb TestFile.c
```

You can also add a [YAML](http://www.yaml.org/) file to configure extra options.
Conveniently, this YAML file is of the same format as that used by Unity and
CMock. So if you are using YAML files already, you can simply pass the very same
file into the generator script.

```Shell
ruby generate_test_runner.rb TestFile.c my_config.yml
```

The contents of the YAML file `my_config.yml` could look something like the
example below. If you're wondering what some of these options do, you're going
to love the next section of this document.

```YAML
:unity:
  :includes:
    - stdio.h
    - microdefs.h
  :cexception: 1
  :suit_setup: "blah = malloc(1024);"
  :suite_teardown: "free(blah);"
```

If you would like to force your generated test runner to include one or more
header files, you can just include those at the command line too. Just make sure
these are _after_ the YAML file, if you are using one:

```Shell
ruby generate_test_runner.rb TestFile.c my_config.yml extras.h
```

Another option, particularly if you are already using Ruby to orchestrate your
builds - or more likely the Ruby-based build tool Rake - is requiring this
script directly. Anything that you would have specified in a YAML file can be
passed to the script as part of a hash. Let's push the exact same requirement
set as we did above but this time through Ruby code directly:

```Ruby
require "generate_test_runner.rb"
options = {
  :includes => ["stdio.h", "microdefs.h"],
  :cexception => 1,
  :suite_setup => "blah = malloc(1024);",
  :suite_teardown => "free(blah);"
}
UnityTestRunnerGenerator.new.run(testfile, runner_name, options)
```

If you have multiple files to generate in a build script (such as a Rakefile),
you might want to instantiate a generator object with your options and call it
to generate each runner thereafter. Like thus:

```Ruby
gen = UnityTestRunnerGenerator.new(options)
test_files.each do |f|
  gen.run(f, File.basename(f,'.c')+"Runner.c"
end
```

#### Options accepted by generate_test_runner.rb:

The following options are available when executing `generate_test_runner`. You
may pass these as a Ruby hash directly or specify them in a YAML file, both of
which are described above. In the `examples` directory, Example 3's Rakefile
demonstrates using a Ruby hash.


##### `:includes`

This option specifies an array of file names to be `#include`'d at the top of
your runner C file. You might use it to reference custom types or anything else
universally needed in your generated runners.


##### `:suite_setup`

Define this option with C code to be executed _before any_ test cases are run.

Alternatively, if your C compiler supports weak symbols, you can leave this
option unset and instead provide a `void suiteSetUp(void)` function in your test
suite.  The linker will look for this symbol and fall back to a Unity-provided
stub if it is not found.


##### `:suite_teardown`

Define this option with C code to be executed _after all_ test cases have
finished.  An integer variable `num_failures` is available for diagnostics.
The code should end with a `return` statement; the value returned will become
the exit code of `main`.  You can normally just return `num_failures`.

Alternatively, if your C compiler supports weak symbols, you can leave this
option unset and instead provide a `int suiteTearDown(int num_failures)`
function in your test suite.  The linker will look for this symbol and fall
back to a Unity-provided stub if it is not found.


##### `:enforce_strict_ordering`

This option should be defined if you have the strict order feature enabled in
CMock (see CMock documentation). This generates extra variables required for
everything to run smoothly. If you provide the same YAML to the generator as
used in CMock's configuration, you've already configured the generator properly.


##### `:plugins`

This option specifies an array of plugins to be used (of course, the array can
contain only a single plugin). This is your opportunity to enable support for
CException support, which will add a check for unhandled exceptions in each
test, reporting a failure if one is detected. To enable this feature using Ruby:

```Ruby
:plugins => [ :cexception ]
```

Or as a yaml file:

```YAML
:plugins:
  -:cexception
```

If you are using CMock, it is very likely that you are already passing an array
of plugins to CMock. You can just use the same array here. This script will just
ignore the plugins that don't require additional support.


### `unity_test_summary.rb`

A Unity test file contains one or more test case functions. Each test case can
pass, fail, or be ignored. Each test file is run individually producing results
for its collection of test cases. A given project will almost certainly be
composed of multiple test files. Therefore, the suite of tests is comprised of
one or more test cases spread across one or more test files. This script
aggregates individual test file results to generate a summary of all executed
test cases. The output includes how many tests were run, how many were ignored,
and how many failed. In addition, the output includes a listing of which
specific tests were ignored and failed. A good example of the breadth and
details of these results can be found in the `examples` directory. Intentionally
ignored and failing tests in this project generate corresponding entries in the
summary report.

If you're interested in other (prettier?) output formats, check into the
Ceedling build tool project (ceedling.sourceforge.net) that works with Unity and
CMock and supports xunit-style xml as well as other goodies.

This script assumes the existence of files ending with the extensions
`.testpass` and `.testfail`.The contents of these files includes the test
results summary corresponding to each test file executed with the extension set
according to the presence or absence of failures for that test file. The script
searches a specified path for these files, opens each one it finds, parses the
results, and aggregates and prints a summary. Calling it from the command line
looks like this:

```Shell
ruby unity_test_summary.rb build/test/
```

You can optionally specify a root path as well. This is really helpful when you
are using relative paths in your tools' setup, but you want to pull the summary
into an IDE like Eclipse for clickable shortcuts.

```Shell
ruby unity_test_summary.rb build/test/ ~/projects/myproject/
```

Or, if you're more of a Windows sort of person:

```Shell
ruby unity_test_summary.rb build\teat\ C:\projects\myproject\
```

When configured correctly, you'll see a final summary, like so:

```Shell
--------------------------
UNITY IGNORED TEST SUMMARY
--------------------------
blah.c:22:test_sandwiches_should_HaveBreadOnTwoSides:IGNORE

-------------------------
UNITY FAILED TEST SUMMARY
-------------------------
blah.c:87:test_sandwiches_should_HaveCondiments:FAIL:Expected 1 was 0
meh.c:38:test_soda_should_BeCalledPop:FAIL:Expected "pop" was "coke"

--------------------------
OVERALL UNITY TEST SUMMARY
--------------------------
45 TOTAL TESTS 2 TOTAL FAILURES 1 IGNORED
```

How convenient is that?


*Find The Latest of This And More at [ThrowTheSwitch.org](https://throwtheswitch.org)*
